Asynchronous JS:
1. Asynchronous programming is a technique that enables your program to start a potentially long-running task and still be 
   able to be responsive to other events while that task runs, rather than having to wait until that task has finished. Once that 
   task has finished, your program is presented with the result.

   example synchronous code:    const name="ankur";
                             const greeting=`hello my name is ${name}!`;
                             console.log(greeting)
2. Problem with Synchronous Programming: since JS is single threaded, long running synchronous piece of
   code blocks the thread, thus while a long running synchronous code is in exectution during that time 
   no other thing can be done.
3. Asynchronous programming comes as solution to above stated issue, with help of various mechanisms
   discussed ahead.

Callbacks:
1. callback is a function which is passed to other function with intention of being called later on.
2. One of the main ways of implementing asynchronous functions in JS.
3. Callback hell: callbacks nested inside other callback , the nesting is mutliple levels deep. This makes
   code unmaintanable and readablility goes for toss (pyramid of doom).
   Example: const cart=["shoes","shirt","pants","socks"]
            api.createOrder(cart,function(){
            api.payForOrder(function(){
             appendFile.showOrderSummary(function(){
               api.updateWallet()
                       })
                   })
            })
4. Inversion of control: the control of our function is no longer with us , rather the control is passed 
   on the other piece of code which then will call the given callback, but how to trust whether our callback
   will be correctly called? As a developer the control of code should be retained with programmer.

Promises:
1. Promises are the foundation of asynchronous programming in modern JavaScript. A promise is an object returned 
   by an asynchronous function, which represents the current state of the operation. At the time the promise is 
   returned to the caller, the operation often isn't finished, but the promise object provides methods to handle 
   the eventual success or failure of the operation.
2. Then() and catch() methods are available on the promise object to which takes in callback 
   which would be called back depending on resolving of promise or rejection of promis e.
3. Promise Object can be in only on of these states: pending,fulfilled,rejected.
4. Promise Object is immutable, and this obejct is resolved or rejected only once.


Async Await:
1. async is a keyword in js which makes a normal function as asynchronous function meaning such 
   function can only return a promise strictly . In case of non promise objects being returned by a
   async function, it is automatically wrapped inside a promise and hence the caller will recieve a 
   promise object.
2. await keyword resolves a promise and thus can only be written in front a promise or promise 
   returning function.
3. which in simply means that whenever a await is encoutered by js engine, the function is popped out of 
   call stack and only loaded back into callstack when the promise which was awaited got resolved/rejected.
4. await keyword can only be called inside a async function only.
5. async await is actually a syntactic sugar which means under the hood it does promise evaluation using .then()
   and .catch() only but this was of using async await allows handling asynchronous piece of code just like synchronous
   piece of code from developer point of view.
5. For example async/await usage allows using try/catch to do error handling on asynchronous piece of code.
   Execute this following example.
const p1=new Promise((resolve)=>{
       setTimeout(()=>{
              resolve("Promise 1 resolved")
       },10000)
})
const p2=new Promise((resolve)=>{
       setTimeout(()=>{
              resolve("Promise 2 resolved")
       },5000)
})
async function func(){
       console.log("Hello world!")
       const promise1=await p1;
       console.log(promise1)
       const promise2=await p2;
       console.log(promise2)
}
func()

Event Loop Mechanism:
1. The Call Stack is a data structure that keeps track of all function calls currently being executed.
   It works on the Last In First Out (LIFO) principle.
2. Web APIs are provided by the environment (browser or Node.js) and run independently of the JS engine thread.
   For example, when setTimeout() is called, the timer runs in the Web API environment, not on the JS call stack.
3. Once an asynchronous operation completes (like a timer finishes or a fetch request resolves), its callback function is placed in a queue waiting to be executed.
   There are two important types of queues:
         Callback Queue (Macrotask Queue) — holds tasks like setTimeout, setInterval, UI rendering, I/O callbacks.
         Microtask Queue — holds tasks like resolved Promise callbacks (.then()/.catch()), MutationObserver callbacks, and queueMicrotask().
4. The Event Loop is a process that continuously monitors the call stack and the queues.
   If the call stack is empty, the event loop picks the first task from the microtask queue and pushes it onto the call stack.
5. It continues to run all microtasks until the microtask queue is empty.
   Only after that, it picks the next task from the callback (macrotask) queue and pushes it onto the call stack.
6. This mechanism ensures that microtasks always run before the next macrotask, giving Promises and other microtasks a higher priority.
   After processing a macrotask and all subsequent microtasks, the browser may perform rendering updates (repaint/reflow).
 
NOTE:
1. JS engine itself is single threaded.
2. But JS runtime environment includes mutlit threaded capabilites like
   Web apis (setTimeout(),DOM apis,fetch(),console,localstorage,location)
   Event Loop 
   Web Worker
   Thread pools (in nodejs with libuv,fs module uses these)
3. Whenver JS code runs, a global execution context is set up and loaded into callstack.
4. Global JS Object: It is the top-level object in JavaScript that provides access to global 
   variables and functions. In browser (window) while in nodejs(global).
5. From ES2020, globalThis is used to reference the global JS Object.
6. All functions like setTimeout, console etc live within this global JS object and hence 
   directly accessible to us wihtin code.



   
