Javascript tooling
A. Bundlers
1. Bundlers: webpack,parcel,vite
2. The job of combining multiple js,css,assets(image) together into a single
   optimized file is called bundling.
3. Benefits:
   3.1 improved performance.
   3.2 reduced network traffic.
   3.3 enable code modularization and lazy loading.
   3.4 apply optimization and performance enhancements.

4.Bundler anatomy:
4.1 Entry points: obvious to name the point from where bundler starts begin
                  analyzing and bundling code.
4.2 Dependency Resolution: bundlers build a dependency graph to determine relations
                           between different modules after analyzing all imports.
4.3 Loaders: transformation module which enable bundlers to process different types of
             files and apply transformation to the code like transpiling ts to js,
             applying css pre processors etc.
4.4 Plugins: extend the basic functionalities of a bundler by performing additional task
             like providing custom configuration,generating html files, handling environment
             variables etc during bundling process.
4.5 output: this configuration determines how the bundled code is generated and where
            is it saved and other related options.


B. Transpiler
1. Transpilers: babel,typescript,coffeescript
2. Job is take code in one language and spit out equivalent code in other language.
3. Transpilers are different than compilers in sense that compilers take high level
   language as input and give machine code as output while transpilers input and output
   languages are on same level of abstraction.
4. Example would be babel which converts cone written in newer js version and spit out
   code in older js versions or another example being typescript.

5. Transpiler Anatomy:
5.1 since transpiler is design wise similar to a compiler the steps followed
    components are same as well.
5.2 steps like parsing,generation of ast and then semantically verified ast, intermediate
    code generation , code optimization (tac) and target code output are present here.
